.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Jan Friesse (jfriesse@redhat.com)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the Red Hat, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH "CMAP_FINALIZE" 3 "20/01/2012" "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
.P
cmap_finalize \- Finalize connection to CMAP

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fB#include <corosync/cmap.h>\fR

.P
\fBcs_error_t cmap_finalize (cmap_handle_t \fIhandle\fB);\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The \fBcmap_finalize\fR function is used to to close a connection to the
CMAP API. Once the connection is finalized, the handle may not be
used again by applications. No more callbacks will be dispatched from the
.B cmap_dispatch
function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CS_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
CS_ERR_BAD_HANDLE error is returned when handle is invalid.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cmap_initialize (3),
.BR cmap_dispatch (3),
.BR cmap_overview (8)
