.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Jan Friesse (jfriesse@redhat.com)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the Red Hat, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH "CMAP_OVERVIEW" 8 "03/02/2012" "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
.P
cmap_overview \- Overview of the Configuration Map

.SH OVERVIEW
.P
The CMAP library is used to interact with the configuration database used by corosync.

.PP
The library provides a mechanism to:
.PP
* Create of new keys
.PP
* Change existing keys
.PP
* Remove keys
.PP
* Iterate keys with given prefix
.PP
* Track changes on keys

Description of most keys created by corosync itself can be found in cmap_keys (8).

.SH BUGS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cmap_initialize (3),
.BR cmap_finalize (3),
.BR cmap_get (3),
.BR cmap_set (3),
.BR cmap_delete (3),
.BR cmap_inc (3),
.BR cmap_dec (3),
.BR cmap_fd_get (3),
.BR cmap_dispatch (3),
.BR cmap_context_set (3),
.BR cmap_context_get (3),
.BR cmap_iter_init (3),
.BR cmap_iter_next (3),
.BR cmap_iter_finalize (3),
.BR cmap_track_add (3),
.BR cmap_track_delete (3),
.BR cmap_keys (8)
