.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Christine Caulfield <ccaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH CONFDB_OBJECT_FIND 3 2008-04-17 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
confdb_object_find \- Find a named object in the Configuration Database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/confdb.h>
.sp
.BI "confdb_error_t confdb_object_find_start(confdb_handle_t " handle ", unsigned int " parent_object_handle " ); "
.sp
.BI "confdb_error_t confdb_object_find(confdb_handle_t " handle ", unsigned int " parent_object_handle ", void " *object_name ", int " object_name_len ", unsigned int " *object_handle " ); "
.sp
.BI "confdb_error_t confdb_object_find_destroy(confdb_handle_t " handle ", unsigned int " parent_object_handle " ); "

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B confdb_object_find
function repeatedly returns objects that match a given name. You must call
.B confdb_object_find_start
first. This establishes a context for the parent object so that it knows where you are in the list. Then the next call to
.B confdb_object_find
will return the handle of the first object that matches the passed in name. Subsequent calls will return any remaining objects
with the same name. The function returns CONFDB_ERR_ACCESS when the all of the matching objects have been seen.
.BR
You need to provide the same object name and length for each call to
.B confdb_object_find,
If you change either of then, the results are undefined.
.BR
The library holds a seperate context for each parent object, so you can call confdb_object_iter() on several parent objects at the same time and they will not interfere. Nor will they interfere with
.B confdb_object_iter
or
.B confdb_key_iter
calls on the same parent object.
.BR
.B When you have finished searching for objects, call the
.B confdb_object_find_destroy
library call to free up memory associated with the search context.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CONFDB_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR confdb_overview (8),
.BR confdb_initialize (3),
.BR confdb_finalize (3),
.BR confdb_dispatch (3),
.BR confdb_object_create (3),
.BR confdb_object_destroy (3),
.BR confdb_object_parent_get (3),
.BR confdb_key_create (3),
.BR confdb_key_delete (3),
.BR confdb_key_get (3),
.BR confdb_key_replace (3),
.BR confdb_object_find_start (3),
.BR confdb_object_find (3),
.BR confdb_object_iter_start (3),
.BR confdb_object_iter (3),
.BR confdb_key_iter_start (3),
.BR confdb_key_iter (3),
.PP
