.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Christine Caulfield <ccaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH CONFDB_INITIALIZE 3 2004-08-31 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
confdb_initialize \- Create a new connection to the ConfDb service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/confdb.h>
.sp
.BI "int confdb_initialize(confdb_handle_t *" handle ", confdb_callbacks_t *" callbacks ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B confdb_initialize
function is used to initialize a connection to the configuration database API.
.PP
Each application may have several connections to the CONFDB API.  Each  application
uses the
.I handle
argument to uniquely identify the connection.  The
.I handle
argument is then used in other function calls to identify the connection to be used
for communication with the CONFDB service.
.PP
Every time the configuration database is updated, the callback is called.
The callback function is described by the following type definitions:
.PP
.PP
.IP
.RS
.ne 18
.nf
.ta 4n 20n 32n

typedef void (*confdb_change_notify_fn_t) (
	confdb_handle_t handle,
	unsigned int parent_object_handle,
	unsigned int object_handle,
	void *object_name,
	int  object_name_len,
	void *key_name,
	int key_name_len,
	void *key_value,
	int key_value_len);

.ta
.fi
.RE
.IP
.PP
.PP
The
.I callbacks
argument is of the type:
.IP
.RS
.ne 18
.nf
.PP
typedef struct {
	confdb_change_notify_fn_t confdb_change_notify_fn;
} confdb_callbacks_t;
.ta
.fi
.RE
.IP
.PP
When a configuration change occurs, the callback
is called from the
.B confdb_dispatch()
function.
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CONFDB_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH BUGS
Callbacks are not support at the moment.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR confdb_overview (8),
.BR confdb_finalize (3),
.BR confdb_fd_get (3),
.BR confdb_dispatch (3),
.PP
