.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Christine Caulfield <ccaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH CONFDB_OBJECT_ITER 3 2008-04-17 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
confdb_object_iter \- Iterate through objects in the Configuration Database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/confdb.h>
.sp
.BI "confdb_error_t confdb_object_iter_start(confdb_handle_t " handle ", unsigned int " parent_object_handle " ); "
.sp
.BI "confdb_error_t confdb_object_iter(confdb_handle_t " handle ", unsigned int " parent_object_handle ", unsigned int " *object_handle ", void " *object_name ", int " *object_name_len " ); "
.sp
.BI "confdb_error_t confdb_object_iter_destroy(confdb_handle_t " handle ", unsigned int " parent_object_handle " ); "

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B confdb_object_iter
function repeatedly returns all objects that are subobjects of the specified parent. You must call
.B confdb_object_iter_start
first. This establishes a context for the parent object so that it knows where you are in the list. Then the next call to
.B confdb_object_iter
will return the handle of the first object in the list. Subsequent calls will return any remaining objects. The function returns CONFDB_ERR_ACCESS when the all of the matching objects have been seen. The function returns the name and length of the object as well
as its handle.
.BR
.B When you have finished searching for objects, call the
.B confdb_object_iter_destroy
library call to free up memory associated with the search context.
.BR
.BR
.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CONFDB_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR confdb_overview (8),
.BR confdb_initialize (3),
.BR confdb_finalize (3),
.BR confdb_dispatch (3),
.BR confdb_object_create (3),
.BR confdb_object_destroy (3),
.BR confdb_object_parent_get (3),
.BR confdb_key_create (3),
.BR confdb_key_delete (3),
.BR confdb_key_get (3),
.BR confdb_key_replace (3),
.BR confdb_object_find_start (3),
.BR confdb_object_find (3),
.BR confdb_object_iter_start (3),
.BR confdb_object_iter (3),
.BR confdb_key_iter_start (3),
.BR confdb_key_iter (3),
.PP
