.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Christine Caulfield <ccaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH CONFDB_OBJECT_CREATE 3 2008-04-17 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
confdb_object_create \- Create a new object in the Configuration Database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/confdb.h>
.sp
.BI "confdb_error_t confdb_object_create(confdb_handle_t " handle ", unsigned int " parent_object_handle ",
.BI	void " *object_name ",
.BI	int " object_name_len ",
.BI	unsigned int " *object_handle "); "

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B confdb_object_create
function create a new object in the configuration database. Objects may contain other sub-objects or
keys with values.
.BR
On success the handle of the new object is returned in
.B object_handle.
This value should be used to refer to the object in future, eg when retrieving sub-keys or if the
object is destroyed.
.B parent_object_handle
is the handle of the object that is the parent of the new object. This can be
.B OBJECT_PARENT_HANDLE
if the new object is to be a child of the top-level object.
.BR
Object names are not required to be unique in the database. If you call
.B confdb_object_create
twice with the same parameters you will create two different objects with the same name
but distinct object handles. You can iterate through similarly name objects using the
.B confdb_object_find
call.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CONFDB_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR confdb_initialize (3),
.BR confdb_finalize (3),
.BR confdb_fd_get (3),
.BR confdb_dispatch (3),
.BR confdb_object_create (3),
.BR confdb_object_destroy (3),
.BR confdb_object_parent_get (3),
.BR confdb_key_create (3),
.BR confdb_key_delete (3),
.BR confdb_key_get (3),
.BR confdb_key_replace (3),
.BR confdb_object_find_start (3),
.BR confdb_object_find (3),
.BR confdb_object_iter_start (3),
.BR confdb_object_iter (3),
.BR confdb_key_iter_start (3),
.BR confdb_key_iter (3),
.PP
