.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Christine Caulfield <ccaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH CONFDB_DISPATCH 3 2004-08-31 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
confdb_dispatch \- Dispatches callbacks from the CONFDB service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/confdb.h>
.sp
.BI "int confdb_dispatch(confdb_handle_t " handle ", confdb_dispatch_t *" dispatch_types ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B confdb_dispatch
function is used to dispatch configuration changes.
.PP
Each application may have several connections to the CONFDB API.  Each  application
uses the
.I handle
argument to uniquely identify the connection.
.PP
The
.I dispatch_types
argument is used to identify the type of dispatch to execute.  The possible types are
defined by the structure:

.IP
.RS
.ne 18
.nf
.ta 4n 30n 33n
typedef enum {
        CONFDB_DISPATCH_ONE,
        CONFDB_DISPATCH_ALL,
        CONFDB_DISPATCH_BLOCKING
} confdb_dispatch_t;
.ta
.fi
.RE
.IP
.PP
.PP
The dispatch values have the following meanings:
.TP
.B CONFDB_DISPATCH_ONE
Dispatch at least one callback, blocking until the callback is dispatched.
.TP
.B CONFDB_DISPATCH_ALL
Dispatch all waiting callbacks without blocking to wait for any callbacks.
.TP
.B CONFDB_DISPATCH_BLOCKING
Dispatch all callbacks blocking indefinitely.  This is used in a threaded
program where a thread is created, and then confdb_dispatch() is called immediately
from the created thread to execute callbacks.

.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CONFDB_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR confdb_overview (8),
.BR confdb_initialize (3),
.BR confdb_finalize (3),
.BR confdb_fd_get (3),
.BR confdb_object_create (3),
.BR confdb_object_destroy (3),
.BR confdb_object_parent_get (3),
.BR confdb_key_create (3),
.BR confdb_key_delete (3),
.BR confdb_key_get (3),
.BR confdb_key_replace (3),
.BR confdb_object_find_start (3),
.BR confdb_object_find (3),
.BR confdb_object_iter_start (3),
.BR confdb_object_iter (3),
.BR confdb_key_iter_start (3),
.BR confdb_key_iter (3),

.PP
