.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010,2014 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-QUORUMTOOL 8 2012-01-12
.SH NAME
corosync-quorumtool \- Set and display quorum settings.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-quorumtool [\-s] [\-m] [\-l] [\-p] [\-v votes] [\-n nodeid] [\-e expected] [\-H] [\-i] [\-o <a|n|i>] [\-a] [\-f] [\-h] [\-V]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Display the current state of quorum in the cluster and set vote quorum options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  -s
show quorum status
.TP
.B  -m
constantly monitor quorum status
.TP
.B  -l
list nodes
.TP
.B  -p
when used with -s or -l, generates machine parsable output
.TP
.B  -v <votes>
change the number of votes for a node *
.TP
.B  -n <nodeid>
optional nodeid of node for -v
.TP
.B  -e <expected>
change expected votes for the cluster *
.TP
.B  -H
show nodeids in hexadecimal rather than decimal
.TP
.B  -i
show node IP addresses instead of the resolved name
.TP
.B -p
when used with -s or -l, generates machine parsable output
.TP
.B -o <a|n|i>
Orders the output of the nodes list. By default or with -oa nodes are listed in IP address
order: as they come from corosync. -on will order the nodes based on their name,
and -oi will order them based on their node ID.
.TP
.B -a
Show the name or IP address (see -i above) of all interfaces in use on the nodes, rather than
just the first one.
.TP
.B -f
forcefully unregister a quorum device *DANGEROUS* *
.TP
.B  -h (if no other argument)
show this help text
.TP
.B  -V
show version and exit
.PP
* Starred items only work if votequorum is the quorum provider for corosync
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync_overview (8),
.BR votequorum_overview (8),
.SH AUTHOR
Angus Salkeld
.PP
