.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of Red Hat, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-NOTIFYD 8 2011-01-14
.SH NAME
corosync-notifyd \- Listen for important corosync events and send dbus and/or snmp traps.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-notifyd [\-f] [\-l] [\-o] [\-s] [\-m manager] [\-d] [-h]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync-notifyd
uses corosync API to listen for important cluster events and can log them,
generate dbus signals or generate snmp traps.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f
Start application in foreground.
.TP
.B -l
Log all events.
.TP
.B -o
Print events to stdout (turns on -l).
.TP
.B -s
Send SNMP traps on all events.
.TP
.B -m
Set the SNMP Manager IP address (defaults to localhost).
.TP
.B -d
Send DBUS signals on all events.
.TP
.B -h
Print this help.
.SH EXAMPLES
.br
$ corosync-notifyd -o
.br
corosync-notifyd[18505]: troll[23374016] corosync-notify:18505:12 is now connected to corosync
.br
corosync-notifyd[18505]: troll[23374016] corosync-notify:18505:13 is now disconnected from corosync
.br
corosync-notifyd[18505]: troll[23374016] is now quorate
.br
corosync-notifyd[18505]: r2[1550100672] ip:192.168.100.92 joined
.br
corosync-notifyd[18505]: r2[1550100672] ip:192.168.100.92 left
.br

.br
$ corosync-notifyd -d
.br

Note this output below is from "dbus-monitor --system"

.br
signal sender=:1.216 -> dest=(null destination) serial=2 path=/com/redhat/cluster/corosync;
 interface=com.redhat.cluster.corosync; member=ConnectionStateChange
.br
   string "troll"
.br
   uint32 23374016
.br
   string "corosync-notify:18900:12"
.br
   string "connected"
.br
signal sender=:1.216 -> dest=(null destination) serial=3 path=/com/redhat/cluster/corosync;
 interface=com.redhat.cluster.corosync; member=ConnectionStateChange
.br
   string "troll"
.br
   uint32 23374016
.br
   string "corosync-notify:18900:13"
.br
   string "disconnected"
.br
signal sender=:1.216 -> dest=(null destination) serial=4 path=/com/redhat/cluster/corosync;
 interface=com.redhat.cluster.corosync; member=QorumStateChange
.br
   string "troll"
.br
   uint32 23374016
.br
   string "quorate"
.br
signal sender=:1.216 -> dest=(null destination) serial=5 path=/com/redhat/cluster/corosync;
 interface=com.redhat.cluster.corosync; member=NodeStateChange
.br
   string "r2"
.br
   uint32 1550100672
.br
   string "192.168.100.92"
.br
   string "joined"
.br
signal sender=:1.216 -> dest=(null destination) serial=6 path=/com/redhat/cluster/corosync;
 interface=com.redhat.cluster.corosync; member=NodeStateChange
.br
   string "r2"
.br
   uint32 1550100672
.br
   string "192.168.100.92"
.br
   string "left"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync (8),
.BR corosync-cmapctl (8),
.BR dbus-monitor (1),
.SH AUTHOR
Angus Salkeld
.PP
