.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Jan Friesse <jfriesse@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of Red Hat, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-QDEVICE-NET-CERTUTIL 8 2016-06-28
.SH NAME
corosync-qdevice-net-certutil - tool to generate qdevice model net TLS certificates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-qdevice-net-certutil [-i|-m|-M|-r|-s|-Q] [-c certificate] [-n cluster_name]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync-qdevice-net-certutil
is a frontend for NSS certutil used for generating client certificate for the net model of
qdevice.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -i
Initialize the QDevice Net NSS certificate database.
The default directory for the database is /etc/corosync/qdevice/net/. This directory
has to be writable by the current user. It needs the QNetd CA certificate passed as the
.B -c
parameter. This certificate can be found on the server running QNetd in the file
/etc/corosync/qnetd/nssdb/qnetd-cacert.crt.
.TP
.B -m
Import the cluster certificate and key from a pk12 file.
.TP
.B -r
Generate a certificate request. The certificate request is exported into
/etc/corosync/qdevice/net/qdevice-net-node.crq. It is necessary to
pass the cluster name using the
.B -n
parameter. The cluster name has to match the one defined in /etc/corosync/corosync.conf.
.TP
.B -M
Import a signed certificate and export a certificate with private key into
pk12 file.
.TP
.B -Q
Use ssh/scp to properly set both
.B corosync-qnetd
and
.B corosync-qdevice
certificates on all nodes. It's highly recommended that you use an ssh agent,
or ssh/scp will keep asking for a password - roughly 8 times the number of nodes.
.TP
.B -c
File with certificate to load.
.TP
.B -n
Name of the cluster.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync-qnetd (8)
.BR corosync-qdevice (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Friesse
.PP
