.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-PLOAD 8 2010-05-30
.SH NAME
corosync-pload \- Start payload test.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-pload"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync-pload
starts the pload service.
This is used as a test tool to generate traffic.
All nodes will begin transmitting messages and they will stop when
1500000 messages have been received per node.
.PP
To view the progress of this execute:
.PP
$ corosync-objctl runtime.services.pload.
.br
runtime.services.pload.service_id=13
.br
runtime.services.pload.0.tx=3
.br
runtime.services.pload.0.rx=2
.br
runtime.services.pload.1.tx=2478788
.br
runtime.services.pload.1.rx=4467870
.PP
At the end of the run a log message will be written showing the number of messages written
and the time that this took.
.PP
corosync[4931]: [PLOAD ] 1500000 Writes 300 bytes per write  30.838 seconds runtime, 48640.968 TP/S, 13.916 MB/S.
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync-objctl (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Angus Salkeld
.PP
