.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-CMAP 8 2012-01-23
.SH NAME
corosync-cmapctl: \- A tool for accessing the object database.
.SH DESCRIPTION
usage:  corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] [\-DdghsTt] [\-p filename] [params...]
.HP
\fB\-b\fR show binary values
.SS "Set key:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl \fB\-s\fR key_name type value
.IP
where type is one of ([i|u][8|16|32|64] | flt | dbl | str | bin)
for bin, value is file name (or \- for stdin)
.SS "Load settings from a file:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl \fB\-p\fR filename
.IP
the format of the file is:
[^[^]]<key_name>[ <type> <value>]
.IP
Keys prefixed with single caret ('^') are deleted (see \fB\-d\fR).
.IP
Keys (actually prefixes) prefixed with double caret ('^^') are deleted by prefix (see \fB\-D\fR).
.IP
<type> and <value> are optional (not checked) in above cases.
.IP
Other keys are set (see \fB\-s\fR) so both <type> and <value> are required.
.SS "Delete key:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl \fB\-d\fR key_name...
.SS "Delete multiple keys with prefix:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl \fB\-D\fR key_prefix...
.SS "Get key:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] \fB\-g\fR key_name...
.SS "Display all keys:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b]
.SS "Display keys with prefix key_name:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] key_name...
.SS "Track changes on keys with key_name:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] \fB\-t\fR key_name
.SS "Track changes on keys with key prefix:"
.IP
corosync\-cmapctl [\-b] \fB\-T\fR key_prefix

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cmap_overview (8),
.BR cmap_keys (8)
