.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Jan Friesse (jfriesse@redhat.com)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the Red Hat, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC_XML 5 2011-12-16 "corosync XML config Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
corosync.xml - XML version of corosync executive configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/corosync/corosync.xml

.SH DESCRIPTION
The corosync.xml is XML version of corosync.conf file. It is processed by
.B corosync-xmlproc (8)
to generate valid conf file.

File must be valid XML. File starts with root element
.B corosync
which can contain same arguments as described in
.B corosync.conf (5).

Within corosync tag are other tags which are processed as follows:
.TP
- Every tag is start of new directive
.TP
- Every tag attribute is one of options in directive
.TP
- Directive is automatically closed
.TP
- Sub-tags are processed same and stays within directive
.PP
For example, see /etc/corosync/corosync.xml.example

.SH "FILES"
.TP
/etc/corosync/corosync.xml
XML version of the corosync executive configuration file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR corosync_overview (8),
.BR corosync.conf (5),
.BR corosync-xmlproc (8)
.PP
