.\" 
.\" * Copyright (C) 2010-2020 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld <asalkeld@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH "COROSYNC-CFGTOOL" "8" "2020-02-10" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
corosync-cfgtool \- An administrative tool for corosync.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B corosync\-cfgtool [[\-i IP_address] [\-b] [\-s] [\-n] [\-R] [\-L] [\-k nodeid] [\-a nodeid] [\-h] [\-H] [\--force]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B corosync\-cfgtool
A tool for displaying and configuring active parameters within corosync.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -i
Finds only information about the specified interface IP address or link id with -s.
.TP 
.B -s
Displays the status of the current links on this node for UDP/UDPU, with extended status
for KNET.
After each link, the nodes on that link are displayed in order with their status,
for example there are 3 nodes with KNET transport:

LINK ID 0
        addr    = 192.168.100.80
        status:
                nodeid  1:      localhost
                nodeid  2:      connected
                nodeid  3:      connected
.TP
.B -b
Displays the brief status of the current links on this node when used
with "-s". If any interfaces are faulty, 1 is returned by the binary. If all interfaces
are active 0 is returned to the shell.
After each link, the nodes on that link are displayed in order with their status
encoded into a single digit, or characters 'n', 'd' and '?' with special meaning.
1=link enabled, 2=link connected, So a 3 in a node position indicates that the
link is both enabled and connected. Status represented by character 'n' is used for
localhost link. Character '?' means that Corosync was unable to get status of link from knet (log
should contain more information). Character 'd' shouldn't appear and it means that Corosync
was unable to configure a link and it is result of some error which should have been logged.

The output will be:

LINK ID 0
        addr    = 192.168.100.80
        status  = n33
.TP
.B -n
Displays the status of the current nodes in the system with their link status(es).
.P
.nf
Local node ID 1, transport knet
nodeid: 2 reachable   onwire (min/max/cur): 0, 1, 1
   LINK: 0 (192.168.1.101->192.168.1.102)  enabled connected mtu: 1397
   LINK: 1 (192.168.4.1->192.168.4.2)  enabled mtu: 469
   LINK: 2 (192.168.9.1->192.168.9.2)  enabled mtu: 469
.fi
.P
Only reachable nodes are displayed so "reachable" should always be there.
.br
\(oqonwire\(cq versions are the knet on-wire versions that are supported/in use (where appropriate).
.br
IP addresses are the local and remote IP addresses (for UDP[U] only the local IP address is shown)
.br
enabled - means the link has been brought up
.br
connected - means that the link is connected to the remote node
.br
dynconnected - is not currently implemented
.br
mtu - shows the size of data packets. Should be the link packet size less a small amount
for protocol overheads and encryption
.TP
.B -R
Tell all instances of corosync in this cluster to reload corosync.conf.

Running corosync-cfgtool -R where nodes are running different versions
of corosync (including minor versions) is unsupported and may result in undefined
behaviour.
.TP
.B -L
Tell corosync to reopen all logging files. In contrast to other subcommands,
nothing is displayed on terminal if call is successful.
.TP
.B -k
Kill a node identified by node id.
.TP
.B -a
Display the IP address(es) of a node.
.TP
.B -h
Print basic usage.
.TP
.B -H
Shutdown corosync cleanly on this node.
corosync-cfgtool -H will request a shutdown from corosync, which means it will
consult any interested daemons before shutting down and the shutdown maybe vetoed if a
daemon regards the shutdown as inappropriate.
If --force is added to the command line then corosync will shutdown regardless
of the daemons' opinions on the matter.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR corosync_overview (7),
.SH "AUTHOR"
Angus Salkeld
.PP 
