.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Jan Friesse <jfriesse@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of Red Hat, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-QNETD-CERTUTIL 8 2016-06-28
.SH NAME
corosync-qnetd-certutil - tool to generate qnetd TLS certificates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-qnetd-certutil [-i|-s] [-c certificate] [-n cluster_name]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync-qnetd-certutil
is a frontend for the NSS certutil, it is used for generating the QNetd CA (Certificate Authority), 
server certificate and signing cluster certificate used by
.B corosync-qdevice
when using the model 'net'.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -i
Initialize the QNetd NSS certificate database and generate the QNetd CA and server certificates.
The default directory for the database is /etc/corosync/qnetd. This directory must be
writeable by the current user. The QNetd CA certificate is also exported into the file
/etc/corosync/qnetd/nssdb/qnetd-cacert.crt.
.TP
.B -s
Sign the cluster certificate. It is necessary to pass the cluster name (as
configured in corosync.conf) and the certificate request file - see options below.
The signed certificate will be written to the 
file /etc/corosync/qnetd/nssdb/cluster-$ClusterName.crt
.TP
.B -c
Certificate request file to sign.
.TP
.B -n
Name of the cluster.
.SH NOTES
If qnetd is executed by a non root user, /etc/corosync/qnetd and its subdirectories must be owned by (or have group access for) the given user. If
.B corosync-qnetd-certutil
is executed as root it tries to copy the owner and group of /etc/corosync/qnetd to all of the created files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync-qnetd (8)
.BR corosync-qdevice (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Friesse
.PP
