.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Jan Friesse <jfriesse@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of Red Hat, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-QNETD-TOOL 8 2016-06-23
.SH NAME
corosync-qnetd-tool \- corosync-qnetd control interface.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-qnetd-tool [-Hhlsv] [-c cluster_name] [-p qnetd_ipc_socket_path]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync-qnetd-tool
is a frontend to the internal corosync-qnetd IPC. Its main purpose is to show important
information about the current internal state of
.B corosync-qnetd.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -H
Properly shutdown the
.B corosync-qnetd
process
.TP
.B -h
Display a short usage text
.TP
.B -l
List all clients connected to the
.B corosync-qnetd
process. The output is described in its own section below.
.TP
.B -s
Display status of the
.B corosync-qnetd
process.
.TP
.B -v
Display more verbose output for options
.B -l
and
.B -s
.TP
.B -c
Used only with the
.B -l
option. By default, information about all clients from all clusters is displayed, with
this option it's possible to filter information from a single cluster given the
.I cluster_name.
.TP
.B -p
Path to the
.B corosync-qnetd
communication socket.

.SH LIST COMMAND OUTPUT
.nf
Cluster "Cluster":
    Algorithm:          Fifty-Fifty split
    Tie-breaker:        Node with lowest node ID
    Node ID 1:
        Client address:         ::ffff:127.0.0.1:52000
        HB interval:            8000ms
        Configured node list:   1, 2
        Ring ID:                1.a00000000021b40
        Membership node list:   1, 2
        TLS active:             Yes (client certificate verified)
        Vote:                   No change (ACK)
 ...
.fi

The output contains a list of clusters. Each cluster has the cluster common options
.I Algorithm
and
.I Tie-breaker
as configured in the corosync.conf file. Information about nodes follows.
.I Client address
is the IP address and port of the client.
.I HB interval
is the heartbeat interval between
.B corosync-qnetd
and
.B corosync-qdevice
client. This option can be configured in corosync.conf.
.I Configured node list
is the list of nodes configured in corosync.conf.
.I Ring ID
and
.I Membership node list
are self-explanatory.
.I TLS active
describes if an encrypted transport is used between server and client.
.I Vote
is last vote sent to
.B corosync-qdevice
client. The last ACK/NACK vote (if it exists) is in parentheses.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corosync-qnetd (8)
.BR corosync-qdevice (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Friesse
.PP
