.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2008 Allied Telesis Labs NZ.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Angus Salkeld (angus.salkeld@alliedtelesis.co.nz)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH COROSYNC-OBJCTL 8 2008-07-29
.SH NAME
corosync-objctl \- Configure objects in the Object Database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "corosync-objctl [\-b] [\-c|\-w|\-d|\-a|\-t\-h] <OBJECT-SPEC>..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corosync-objctl
is used to configure objects within the object database at runtime.
.SH OBJECT-SPEC
.TP
There are two types of entities
.B Objects
and
.B Key=Value pairs
.TP
.B Objects
Objects are container like entities that can hold other entities.
They are specified as "objectA"."objectB".
An example is logging.logger.
.TP
.B Key=Value pairs
These are the entities that actually hold values (read database "fields").
They are specified as object.key=value or just object.key if you are reading.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Create a new object.
.TP
.B -d
Delete an existing object.
.TP
.B -w
Use this option when you want to write a new value to a key.
.TP
.B -a
Display all values currently available.
.TP
.B -t
Track changes to an object and it's children. As changes are made to the object
they are printed out. this is kind of like a "tail -f" for the object database.
.TP
.B -h
Print basic usage.
.TP
.B -b
Display binary values in BASH backslash escape sequences format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Print the objOne object (shouldn't exist yet).
$ corosync-objctl objOne
.TP
Create the objOne object.
$ corosync-objctl -c objOne
.TP
Print the objOne object (empty).
$ corosync-objctl objOne
.br
objOne
.TP
Write two new keys to the objOne object.
$ corosync-objctl -w objOne.max=3000 objOne.min=100
.TP
Print the objOne object (with the two new keys).
$ corosync-objctl objOne
.br
objOne.min=100
.br
objOne.max=3000
.TP
Delete the objOne.min key
$ corosync-objctl -d objOne.min=100
.TP
Prove that is gone.
$ corosync-objctl objOne
.br
objOne.max=3000
.TP
Delete the whole objOne object.
$ corosync-objctl -d objOne
.TP
Prove that is gone.
$ corosync-objctl objOne
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR confdb_keys (8),
.BR confdb_initialize (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Angus Salkeld
.PP
