.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2006 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Patrick Caulfield <pcaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" * 
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH CPG_MCAST_JOINED 3 3004-08-31 "openais Man Page" "Openais Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
cpg_join \- Multicasts to all groups joined to a handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/uio.h>
.B #include <openais/cpg.h>
.sp
.BI "int cpg_mcast_joined(cpg_handle_t " handle ", cpg_gurantee_t " guarantee ", struct iovec *" iovec ", int " iov_len ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cpg_mcast_joined
function is multicast a message to all the processes that have been joined with the
.B cpg_join(3)
funtion for the same group name.
.I handle.
Messages that are sent to any of the groups joined to the parameter
.I handle
will be delivered to all subscribed processes in the system.
.PP
The argument
.I guarantee
requests a delivery guarantee for the message to be sent.  The cpg_guarantee_t type is
defined by:
.IP
.RS
.ne 18
.nf
.ta 4n 30n 33n
typedef enum {
        CPG_TYPE_UNORDERED,     /* not implemented */
        CPG_TYPE_FIFO,          /* same as agreed */
        CPG_TYPE_AGREED,        /* implemented */
        CPG_TYPE_SAFE           /* not implemented */
} cpg_guarantee_t;
.ta
.fi
.RE
.IP
.PP
.PP
The meanings of the cpg_gaurantee_t typedef are:
.TP
.B CPG_GUARANTEE_UNORDERED
Messages are guaranteed to be delivered, but with no particular order.  This 
mode is unimplemented in the CPG library.
.TP
.B CPG_GUARANTEE_FIFO
Messages are guaranteed to be delivered in first sent first delivery order
from one one.  In fact, this guarantee is actually the AGREED guarantee.
.TP
.B CPG_GUARANTEE_AGREED
All processors must agree on the order of delivery.  If a message is sent
from two or more processors at about the same time, the delivery will occur
in the same order to all processors.
.TP
.B CPG_GUARANTEE_SAFE
All processors must agree on the order of delivery.  Further all processors
must have a copy of the message before any delivery takes place.  This mode is
unimplemented in the CPG library.
.PP
The
.I iovec
argument describes the scatter/gather list which is used to transmit a message.  This
is a standard socket structure described by:
.IP
.RS
.ne 18
.nf
.ta 4n 30n 33n
struct iovec
{
        void *iov_base;     /* Pointer to data.  */
        size_t iov_len;     /* Length of data.  */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.IP
.PP
.PP
The
.I iovlen
argument describes the number of entires in the
.I iovec
argument.  

.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CPG_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cpg_overview (8),
.BR cpg_initialize (3),
.BR cpg_finalize (3),
.BR cpg_fd_get (3),
.BR cpg_dispatch (3),
.BR cpg_leave (3),
.BR cpg_join (3),
.BR cpg_membership_get (3)
.PP
