.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2006 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Patrick Caulfield <pcaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH CPG_LEAVE 3 2004-08-31 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
cpg_leave \- Leave a group in the CPG library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/cpg.h>
.sp
.BI "int cpg_leave(cpg_handle_t " handle ", struct cpg_name *" group ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cpg_leave
function is used to leave a group.  Once a group has been left the process will
no longer receive messages or notifications about events in that group.
Note that a process is only deemed to have left the group once it has been
notified (by its confchg callback) that is has left.
So expect to receive at least one confchg callback after calling this function.

The argument
.I group
is used to specify the group to leave. It is currently ignored as only one group
can be joined per handle. It is included here for to allow for future development.

.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CS_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cpg_overview (8),
.BR cpg_initialize (3),
.BR cpg_finalize (3),
.BR cpg_fd_get (3),
.BR cpg_dispatch (3),
.BR cpg_join (3),
.BR cpg_leave (3),
.BR cpg_mcast_joined (3),
.BR cpg_membership_get (3)
.BR cpg_zcb_alloc (3)
.BR cpg_zcb_free (3)
.BR cpg_zcb_mcast_joined (3)
.BR cpg_context_get (3)
.BR cpg_context_set (3)
.BR cpg_local_get (3)

.PP
