.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2006-2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Patrick Caulfield <pcaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH CPG_OVERVIEW 8 2009-4-15 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
cpg_overview \- CPG library overview
.SH OVERVIEW
The CPG library is delivered with the corosync project.  This library is used
to create distributed applications that operate properly during cluster
partitions, merges, and faults.
.PP
The library provides a mechanism to:
* handle abstraction for multiple instances of a CPG library in one application
* join one or more groups
* leave one or more groups
* Deliver messages to members of that group
* Deliver configuration changes
.PP
.SH SECURITY
If encryption is enabled in corosync.conf, the CPG library will encrypt and
authenticate message contents.  Applications must run as the ais user to be
validated by corosync on IPC connection, otherwise they will be unable to
access the corosync services.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cpg_overview (8),
.BR cpg_initialize (3),
.BR cpg_finalize (3),
.BR cpg_fd_get (3),
.BR cpg_dispatch (3),
.BR cpg_join (3),
.BR cpg_leave (3),
.BR cpg_mcast_joined (3),
.BR cpg_model_initialize (3),
.BR cpg_membership_get (3)
.BR cpg_zcb_alloc (3)
.BR cpg_zcb_free (3)
.BR cpg_zcb_mcast_joined (3)
.BR cpg_context_get (3)
.BR cpg_context_set (3)
.BR cpg_local_get (3)

.PP
