.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2004 MontaVista Software, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Steven Dake (sdake@redhat.com)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH EVS_JOIN 3 2004-08-31 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
evs_join \- Joins one or more groups in the EVS library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/evs.h>
.sp
.BI "int evs_join(evs_handle_t " handle ", evs_group_t *" groups ", int " group_entries ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B evs_join
function is used to join one or more groups.  When a group is joined, using the
.B evs_mcast_joined(3)
function will multicast to the groups joined in the argument
.I handle.
Messages that are sent to any of the groups joined to the parameter
.I handle
will be delivered by
.B evs_dispatch(3).
.PP
This call may be used more then once on a handle, in which case the joined groups will
be all of the groups passed to the
.B evs_join(3)
function during the lifecycle of the parameter
.I handle.
.PP

The argument
.I groups
is used to specify the groups to join.  A group is a 32 byte key.  The key is
not a string, hence, the entire key is used when joining the channel.  For that reason
the entire group should be initialized.
.PP
The argument
.I group_entries
specifies how many entries are located in the groups argument.

The
.I groups
argument is of the type evs_group_t which is defined by the structure:

.IP
.RS
.ne 18
.nf
.ta 4n 30n 33n
typedef struct {
        char key[32];
} evs_groups_t;
.ta
.fi
.RE
.IP
.PP
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the EVS_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR evs_overview (8),
.BR evs_initialize (3),
.BR evs_finalize (3),
.BR evs_fd_get (3),
.BR evs_dispatch (3),
.BR evs_leave (3),
.BR evs_mcast_joined (3),
.BR evs_mcast_groups (3),
.BR evs_membership_get (3)
.BR evs_context_get (3)
.BR evs_context_set (3)
.PP
