.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Patrick Caulfield <pcaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH EVS_CONTEXT_SET 3 2004-08-31 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
evs_context_set \- Sets the context variable for a EVS instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/evs.h>
.sp
.BI "int evs_context_set(evs_handle_t " handle ", void *" context ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B evs_context_set
function is used to set the context variable for a evs instance. It has no
meaning insire libevs itself and will not be touched by the library. It can
be retrieved using
.B evs_context_get(3)
.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the EVS_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR evs_overview (8),
.BR evs_initialize (3),
.BR evs_finalize (3),
.BR evs_fd_get (3),
.BR evs_dispatch (3),
.BR evs_join (3),
.BR evs_leave (3),
.BR evs_mcast_joined (3),
.BR evs_mcast_groups (3),
.BR evs_membership_get (3)
.BR evs_context_get (3)
.BR evs_context_set (3)
.PP
