.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2005 MontaVista Software, Inc.
.\" * Copyright (c) 2006 RedHat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Steven Dake (sdake@mvista.com)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" * 
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH OPENAIS_CONF 5 2006-03-28 "openais Man Page" "Openais Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
openais.conf - openais executive configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/ais/openais.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION
The openais.conf instructs the openais executive about various parameters
needed to control the openais executive.  The configuration file consists of
bracketed top level directives.  The possible directive choices are
.IR "totem  { } , logging { } , event { } , and amf { }".
 These directives are described below.

.TP
totem { }
This top level directive contains configuration options for the totem protocol.
.TP
logging { }
This top level directive contains configuration options for logging.
.TP
event { }
This top level directive contains configuration options for the event service.
.TP
amf { }
This top level directive contains configuration options for the AMF service.

.PP
.PP
Within the 
.B totem
directive, an interface directive is required.  There is also one configuration
option which is required:
.PP
.PP
.TP
version
This specifies the version of the configuration file.  Currently the only
valid version for this directive is 2.

.PP
.PP
Within the 
.B interface
sub-directive of totem there are four parameters which are required unless IPV6
is used, in which case 5 parameters are required:
.TP
ringnumber
This specifies the ring number for the interface.  When using the redundant
ring protocol, each interface should specify separate ring numbers to uniquely
identify to the membership protocol which interface to use for which redundant
ring.

.TP
bindnetaddr
This specifies the address which the openais executive should bind.
This address should always end in zero.  If the totem traffic should
be routed over 192.168.5.92, set bindnetaddr to 192.168.5.0.

This may also be an IPV6 address, in which case IPV6 networking will be used.
In this case, the full address must be specified and there is no automatic
selection of the network interface within a specific subnet as with IPv4.

If IPv6 networking is used, the nodeid field must be specified.

.TP
mcastaddr
This is the multicast address used by openais executive.  The default
should work for most networks, but the network administrator should be queried
about a multicast address to use.  Avoid 224.x.x.x because this is a "config"
multicast address.

This may also be an IPV6 multicast address, in which case IPV6 networking
will be used.  If IPv6 networking is used, the nodeid field must be specified.

.TP
mcastport
This specifies the UDP port number.  It is possible to use the same multicast
address on a network with the openais services configured for different
UDP ports.

.TP
nodeid
This configuration option is optional when using IPv4 and required when using
IPv6.  This is a 32 bit value specifying the node identifier delivered to the
cluster membership service.  If this is not specified with IPv4, the node id
will be determined from the 32 bit IP address the system to which the system
is bound.  The node identifier value of zero is reserved and should not be used.

.PP
.PP
Within the 
.B totem 
directive, there are four configuration options which are all optional.
These control secrecy & authentication, the redundant ring mode of operation,
and network MTU, and number of sending threads.

.TP
secauth
This specifies that HMAC/SHA1 authentication should be used to authenticate
all messages.  It further specifies that all data should be encrypted with the
sober128 encryption algorithm to protect data from eavesdropping.

Enabling this option adds a 36 byte header to every message sent by totem which
reduces total throughput.  Encryption and authentication consume 75% of CPU
cycles in aisexec as measured with gprof when enabled.

For 100mbit networks with 1500 MTU frame transmissions:
A throughput of 9mb/sec is possible with 100% cpu utilization when this
option is enabled on 3ghz cpus.
A throughput of 10mb/sec is possible wth 20% cpu utilization when this
optin is disabled on 3ghz cpus.

For gig-e networks with large frame transmissions:
A throughput of 20mb/sec is possible when this option is enabled on
3ghz cpus.
A throughput of 60mb/sec is possible when this option is disabled on
3ghz cpus.

The default is on.

.TP
redundantring
This specifies the mode of redundant ring, which may be none, active, or
passive.  Active replication offers slightly lower latency from transmit
to delivery in faulty network environments but with less performance.
Passive replication may nearly double the speed of the totem protocol
if the protocol doesn't become cpu bound.  The final option is none, in
which case only one network interface will be used to operate the totem
protocol.

If only one interface directive is specified, none is automatically chosen.
If multiple interface directives are specified, only active or passive may
be chosen.

.TP
netmtu
This specifies the network maximum transmit unit.  To set this value beyond
1500, the regular frame MTU, requires ethernet devices that support large, or
also called jumbo, frames.  If any device in the network doesn't support large
frames, the protocol will not operate properly.  The hosts must also have their
mtu size set from 1500 to whatever frame size is specified here.

Please note while some NICs or switches claim large frame support, they support
9000 MTU as the maximum frame size including the IP header.  Setting the netmtu
and host MTUs to 9000 will cause totem to use the full 9000 bytes of the frame.
Then Linux will add a 18 byte header moving the full frame size to 9018.  As a
result some hardware will not operate properly with this size of data.  A netmtu 
of 8982 seems to work for the few large frame devices that have been tested.
Some manufacturers claim large frame support when in fact they support frame
sizes of 4500 bytes.

Increasing the MTU from 1500 to 8982 doubles throughput performance from 30MB/sec
to 60MB/sec as measured with evsbench with 175000 byte messages with the secauth 
directive set to off.

When sending multicast traffic, if the network frequently reconfigures, chances are
that some device in the network doesn't support large frames.

Choose hardware carefully if intending to use large frame support.

The default is 1500.

.TP
threads
This directive controls how many threads are used to encrypt and send multicast
messages.  If secauth is off, the protocol will never use threaded sending.
If secauth is on, this directive allows systems to be configured to use
multiple threads to encrypt and send multicast messages.

A thread directive of 0 indicates that no threaded send should be used.  This
mode offers best performance for non-SMP systems. 

The default is 0.

Within the 
.B totem 
directive, there are several configuration options which are used to control
the operation of the protocol.  It is generally not recommended to change any
of these values without proper guidance and sufficient testing.  Some networks
may require larger values if suffering from frequent reconfigurations.  Some
applications may require faster failure detection times which can be achieved
by reducing the token timeout.

.TP
token
This timeout specifies in milliseconds until a token loss is declared after not
receiving a token.  This is the time spent detecting a failure of a processor
in the current configuration.  Reforming a new configuration takes about 50
milliseconds in addition to this timeout.

.TP
token_retransmit
This timeout specifies in milliseconds after how long before receiving a token
the token is retransmitted.  This will be automatically calculated if token
is modified.  It is not recommended to alter this value without guidance from
the openais community.

.TP
hold
This timeout specifies in milliseconds how long the token should be held by
the representative when the protocol is under low utilization.   It is not
recommended to alter this value without guidance from the openais community.

.TP
retransmits_before_loss
This value identifies how many token retransmits should be attempted before
forming a new configuration.  If this value is set, retransmit and hold will
be automatically calculated from retransmits_before_loss and token.

.TP
join
This timeout specifies in milliseconds how long to wait for join messages in 
the membership protocol.

.TP
consensus
This timeout specifies in milliseconds how long to wait for consensus to be
achieved before starting a new round of membership configuration.

.TP
merge
This timeout specifies in milliseconds how long to wait before checking for
a partition when no multicast traffic is being sent.  If multicast traffic
is being sent, the merge detection happens automatically as a function of
the protocol.

.TP
downcheck
This timeout specifies in milliseconds how long to wait before checking
that a network interface is back up after it has been downed.

.TP
fail_to_recv_const
This constant specifies how many rotations of the token without receiving any
of the messages when messages should be received may occur before a new
configuration is formed.

.TP
seqno_unchanged_const
This constant specifies how many rotations of the token without any multicast
traffic should occur before the merge detection timeout is started.

.TP
heartbeat_failures_allowed
[HeartBeating mechanism]
Configures the optional HeartBeating mechanism for faster failure detection. Keep in
mind that engaging this mechanism in lossy networks could cause faulty loss declaration 
as the mechanism relies on the network for heartbeating. 

So as a rule of thumb use this mechanism if you require improved failure in low to 
medium utilized networks.

This constant specifies the number of heartbeat failures the system should tolerate
before declaring heartbeat failure e.g 3. Also if this value is not set or is 0 then the
heartbeat mechanism is not engaged in the system and token rotation is the method
of failure detection

The default is 0 (disabled).

.TP
max_network_delay
[HeartBeating mechanism]
This constant specifies in milliseconds the approximate delay that your network takes
to transport one packet from one machine to another. This value is to be set by system
engineers and please dont change if not sure as this effects the failure detection
mechanism using heartbeat.

The default is 50 milliseconds.

.TP
window_size
This constant specifies the maximum number of messages that may be sent on one
token rotation.  If all processors perform equally well, this value could be
large (300), which would introduce higher latency from origination to delivery
for very large rings.  To reduce latency in large rings(16+), the defaults are
a safe compromise.  If 1 or more slow processor(s) are present among fast
processors, window_size should be no larger then 256000 / netmtu to avoid
overflow of the kernel receive buffers.  The user is notified of this by
the display of a retransmit list in the notification logs.  There is no loss
of data, but performance is reduced when these errors occur.

The default is 50 messages.

.TP
max_messages
This constant specifies the maximum number of messages that may be sent by one
processor on receipt of the token.  The max_messages parameter is limited to
256000 / netmtu to prevent overflow of the kernel transmit buffers.

The default is 17 messages.

.PP
Within the 
.B logging
directive, there are four configuration options which are all optional:
.TP
logoutput
This specifies the logging output.  The choices are file, which logs to a file,
stderr, which logs to stderr, and syslog which logs to the system log.  It is
possible to have multiple targets by including this directive with different
options multiple times in the top level directive.

.TP
logfile
If the logoutput: file directive is set, this option specifies where the
log file is written to.

The default is syslog.

.TP
debug
This specifies whether debug output is logged.  This is generally a bad idea, 
unless there is some specific bug or problem that must be found in the
executive.  Set the value to on to debug, off to turn of debugging.

The default is off.

.TP
timestamp
This specifies that a timestamp is placed on all log messages.

.PP
Within the 
.B event
directive, there are two configuration options which are all optional:
.TP
delivery_queue_size
This directive describes the full size of the outgoing delivery queue to the
application.  If applications are slow to process messages, they will be 
delivered event loss messages.  By increasing this value, the applications
that are slowly processing messages may have an opportunity to catch up.

.TP
delivery_queue_resume
This directive describes when new events can be accepted by the event service
when the delivery queue count of pending messages has reached this value. 
Please note this is not cluster wide.

.PP
Within the 
.B amf
directive, there is one configuration option which is optional:
.TP
mode
This can either contain the value enabled or disabled.  When enabled, AMF will
instantiate the service groups specified in the /etc/ais/groups.conf file.
The default is disabled.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
/etc/ais/openais.conf
The openais executive configuration file.
.TP
/etc/ais/groups.conf
The openais AMF service groups configuration file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openais_overview (8), README.amf
.PP
