.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2008, 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Authors: Christine Caulfield <ccaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *          Fabio M. Di Nitto   <fdinitto@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH QUORUM_OVERVIEW 8 2012-02-09 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
quorum_overview \- Quorum Library Overview
.SH OVERVIEW
The quorum library is delivered with the corosync project. It is the external interface to
the quorum service. This service is loaded into all nodes in a corosync cluster and track
the quorum status of a node. In order for quorum service to be useful, a quorum provider
must be configured.
.PP
The library provides a mechanism to:
.PP
* Query the quorum status
.PP
* Receive notifications of quorum state changes
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at the time of writing. The authors are from outerspace. Deal with it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR corosync-quorumtool (8),
.BR corosync.conf (5),
.BR votequorum (5),
.BR quorum_initialize (3),
.BR quorum_finalize (3),
.BR quorum_getquorate (3),
.BR quorum_trackstart (3),
.BR quorum_trackstop (3),
.BR quorum_fd_get (3),
.BR quorum_dispatch (3),
.BR quorum_context_set (3),
.BR quorum_context_get (3)
.PP
