.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Jan Friesse (jfriesse@redhat.com)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the Red Hat, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH "SAM_STOP" 3 "12/01/2009" "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
.P
sam_stop \- Stop health checking

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fB#include <corosync/sam.h>\fR

.P
\fBcs_error_t sam_stop (void);\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The \fBsam_stop\fR function is used to stop health checking of an active
process.  After calling this function, the application no longer should send
helathchecks.  In the case of event driven healthchecking, the healthchecking
thread will be stopped.

.P
A process can always start health checking again by calling \fBsam_start(3)\fR function.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.P
This call return CS_OK value if successful, otherwise and error is returned.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
CS_ERR_BAD_HANDLE
health checking was not started by calling \fBsam_start(3)\fR function.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_start (3)
