.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Christine Caulfield <ccaulfie@redhat.com>
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" *
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */
.TH VOTEQUORUM_LEAVING 3 2009-01-26 "corosync Man Page" "Corosync Cluster Engine Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
votequorum_leaving \- Tell other nodes that we are leaving the cluster
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <corosync/votequorum.h>
.sp
.BI "int votequorum_leaving(votequorum_handle_t " handle ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B votequorum_leaving
function is used to tell the other nodes in the cluster that this node is leaving. They
will (when the node actually leaves) reduce quorum to keep the cluster running without
this node.
.PP
This function should only be called if it is known that the node is being shut down for
a known reason and could be out of the cluster for an extended period of time.
.PP
Normal behaviour is for the cluster to reduce the total number of votes, but NOT expected_votes
when a node leave the cluster, so the cluster could become inquorate. This is correct behaviour
and is ther eto prevent split-brain.
.PP
Do NOT call this function unless you know what you are doing.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This call returns the CS_OK value if successful, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
The errors are undocumented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR votequorum_overview (8),
.BR votequorum_initialize (3),
.BR votequorum_finalize (3),
.BR votequorum_dispatch (3),
.BR votequorum_fd_get (3),
.PP
