.\"/*
.\" * Copyright (c) 2006 Ericsson AB.
.\" *
.\" * All rights reserved.
.\" *
.\" * Author: Hans Feldt (Hans.Feldt at ericsson.com)
.\" *
.\" * This software licensed under BSD license, the text of which follows:
.\" * 
.\" * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" *
.\" * - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" * - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\" *   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\" *   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" * - Neither the name of the MontaVista Software, Inc. nor the names of its
.\" *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" *   software without specific prior written permission.
.\" *
.\" * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" * THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" */

.TH AMF.CONF 5 2006-08-29 "openais Man Page"

.SH NAME
amf.conf - openais AMF configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B amf.conf
is the configuration file that determines the behaviour of the AIS Availability
Management Framework service, AMF in the openais implementation.

Entries in this file will for example determine what applications AMF will start
and how to supervise them.
.P
By default AMF opens /etc/ais/amf.conf. The environment variable
.B
OPENAIS_AMF_CONFIG_FILE
can be set to the pathname of an AMF configuration file to override
the default behaviour.
.P
Any line whose first non-white-space character is
a '#' is considered a comment line. Empty lines are ignored.
.LP
The file contains object entries of the form:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.sp
<Object Class> = <Object Name> {
.RS
.nf
.ft B
<attribute> = <value>
.I	"..."
.RE
}
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP

Object entries are nested, one entry contains another entry. This way relations
between objects are built up. For example a component object defined inside a
Software Unit (SU) object means that the component belongs to the SU. In other
words, the SU is composed of the component. See the example configuration file.

The relation between objects has to comply with the AMF model specified in [5].

Object names shall use only printable ASCII characters. Object names shall be
unique within its context, i.e. two components within the same service unit has
to have different names, but can have the same name as another component within
another service unit.

Attribute names are consistent with the naming of the configuration attributes
in [5].

AMF object attributes are either configuration or runtime attributes. The AMF
configuration file is used to specify configuration attributes. Some configuration
attributes have default values and does not need to be specified. Others are not
valid in certain redundancy models and so on.

The type of an attribute value is either a string, a number, a time or an
enumeration. Enumeration values are specified according to the type definition
in the AIS specification. Time values are specified in milliseconds.

Multivalue attributes are specified using multiple entries with the same
attribute name but different values. See the example configuration file.

The (RDN) value of 'safAmfNode' is a logical name for an AMF node. It is mapped
to a real physical node using the attribute 'saAmfNodeClmNode'.

The value of the attribute 'saAmfNodeClmNode' should be the hostname (without
domain name) as given to the host at boot time. This name is returned by the
shell command 'hostname'.

Currently, AMF is enabled/disabled by an entry in the openais.conf file, see [1].
It is default disabled.


The following list of attributes is currently supported:
.TP 32
.B safAmfCluster
.TP
.B saAmfClusterStartupTimeout
.TP
.B safAmfNode
.TP
.B saAmfNodeClmNode
Host name, required
.TP
.B saAmfNodeSuFailOverProb
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfNodeSuFailoverMax
Required but not used.
.TP
.B safApp
.TP
.B clccli_path
A path added to all CLC-CLI scripts
.TP
.B saAmfSIProtectedbySG
Required when several SGs are specified
.TP
.B safSg
.TP
.B safSi
.TP
.B saAmfSINumCSIs
Required but not used.
.TP
.B safCSType
.TP
.B saAmfSGRedundancyModel
Currently only 'nplusm' is supported, required.
.TP
.B saAmfSGNumPrefActiveSUs
.TP
.B saAmfSGNumPrefStandbySUs
.TP
.B saAmfSGMaxActiveSIsperSUs
.TP
.B saAmfSGMaxStandbySIsperSUs
.TP
.B saAmfSGCompRestartProb
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfSGCompRestartMax
.TP
.B saAmfSGSuRestartProb
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfSGAutoAdjustProb
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfSGSuRestartMax
.TP
.B safSu
.TP
.B saAmfSUNumComponents
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfSUIsExternal
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfSUFailover
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfSUHostedByNode
Required. Set to AMF node name. Note: this is a deviation from the specification.
.TP
.B safComp
.TP
.B saAmfCompCsTypes
Multivalue
.TP
.B saAmfCompCategory
.TP
.B saAmfCompCapability
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfCompNumMaxActiveCsi
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfCompNumMaxStandbyCsi
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfCompCmdEnv
Multivalue
.TP
.B saAmfCompDefaultClcCliTimeout
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfCompDefaultCallbackTimeOut
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfCompInstantiateCmdArgv
.TP
.B saAmfCompInstantiateCmd
.TP
.B saAmfCompTerminateCmdArgv
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfCompTerminateCmd
Required but not used.
.TP
.B saAmfCompCleanupCmdArgv
.TP
.B saAmfCompCleanupCmd
.TP
.B saAmfCompRecoveryOnError
Required but not used.
.TP
.B safHealthcheckKey
.TP
.B saAmfHealthcheckPeriod
.TP
.B saAmfHealthcheckMaxDuration
.TP
.B safCsi
.TP
.B saAmfSIPrefActiveAssignments
.TP
.B saAmfSIPrefStandbyAssignments
.TP
.B saAmfCSTypeName
.TP
.B safCSIAttr
Multivalue


.SH AUTHOR
Hans.Feldt at ericsson.com

.SH EXAMPLE
For an AMF configuration file example, see the amf.conf file under the openais
.B conf
directory.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
/etc/ais/amf.conf
.TP
/etc/ais/openais.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
[1] openais_conf (5)
.TP
[2] openais_overview (8)
.TP
[3] README.amf
.TP
[4] www.saforum.org - SAI-XMI-A.01.01.xml.xip
.TP
[5] www.saforum.org - SAI-Overview.B.02.01.pdf
.TP
[6] www.saforum.org - SAI-AIS-AMF-B.02.01.pdf
.PP
